---
layout: post
title:	On Sports
date:	2022-05-05
author:	Noah
description: My personal relationship with sports and more general thoughts on them
ogimage: on-sports.jpeg

---

*This is a draft

Sports have always been a big part of my life. I played them growing up, and they're still one of my favorite things to watch and talk about.

## Personal life

Sports played a significant role in my childhood. I have been playing soccer since I was 3 or so, I think? I also started swimming when I was 6 or 7. Those were the two main sports I did competitively. I also played water polo and had a very brief stint in lacrosse. But I would do this stuff year-round. I had a practice or game almost every day of my life, it seemed. And I loved it. Most of my best relationships came from the teams and communities I was a part of. My best friends throughout elementary, middle, and high school were on the same soccer team as me throughout most of those years. My other close friends would be from swimming year-round or in the summer. My favorite faculty member from the boarding school I went to was my swim coach. One of the main reasons for all this was just having the same schedules, so spending the most time with these people. We go to school together, and then have practice after school, and spend time carpooling to practice and games together. Spend weekends together at meets and tournaments. Go to camps together in the summer. I swam at a summer club in the summer and I spent the whole day every day there with my other friends, and we all swam and played water polo together all my summers growing up. The list goes on.

You also learn a ton through sports, and I think a lot of my growth came through those moments and relationships. I'm sure they had a huge part in shaping the person I am today. Being competitive and learning the importance of hard work. Not being soft. You don't win a game, race, or get a best time just by participating. You have to work your fucking ass off. This lesson wasn't learned right away. I was always relatively good at whatever sport I was doing, but you're also only competing with those in your town and state. Our soccer team moved to a different league, so we would be traveling to New York every weekend for games playing kids older than us. Or once you hit high school. If you're a freshman, you're still racing or playing against these seniors. The specifics don't matter. The point is that there is no faking it on the field, on the court, in the pool, etc. Whoever wins wins. That's it. Instant feedback and results. Emotions are attached. It hurts. You learn that shit isn't given to you. But you also learn that you can get rewarded at the same time by putting in real time and effort. These are just rough thoughts and probably aren't super coherent. I think the point is made, though. I'll maybe edit this later. Other stuff you learn is teamwork, respect, and sportsmanship (how to win and how to lose). I've had bad moments saying shit or taunting the other team and then getting sent out of the game. But you learn from it. But it's also just part of sports. Where's the fun without the shit talk here and there. When you're in the heat of the moment, you get real, raw, authentic reactions and emotions. I love that. It brings out the good, the bad, and the ugly. You see the best and worst of humanity in these moments. We've all played a little dirty here and there to get whatever edge you can in a game. But there's a line, and that's why there are rules and referees. I don't know if I would even say dirty, but you want to tackle and hit your opponent hard. Put some fear in them, and make sure they know you are there. And that it's gonna be a long fucking day for them. Even just talking about this shit gets me a little fired up again. I genuinely miss that feeling of going out and competing. Going to battle with your brothers. It's one of the best feelings in the world. You have a purpose and you're on a mission. You know it's not going to be easy. But that's what makes victory that much sweeter. You don't care when you beat up on a shitty team and win 5-0. It's beating your rival or the team that would have always got the best of you in the past. When everything's on the line. I'm just rambling now. One other thing I'll say is I think I was generally happier when I had this stuff going for me. When I stopped, and I didn't have practice with my friends every day and didn't get to travel, spend time, and compete with them, I wasn't as happy in life in general. I miss that stuff a lot. It also gave me a purpose, a community, best friends, and just kept me in shape. I didn't realize the significance and impact sports had on my life until it got stripped away from me. That saying of not knowing how good something is until it's gone is so true. The same type of thing with my best friends from high school.

I also wanted to talk about sports in the context of society and culture in general. Things like community, business, celebrities, influence, etc. Then maybe touch on the future of it and explore ideas relating to crypto/web3. I think there could be some interesting experiments here. Sports bleed into culture, they're universal, and most people love them. I ride and die with my Boston sports teams. It's weird in a way, but there's real emotion attached to the outcome of their games. Also with Manchester United, I've become numb to the losing and pain. I'm also very spoiled with Boston sports, as it's the greatest sports city in the world. Sorry our teams are always good, but also not really. It's kinda fun being the most hated team in basically every leauge (mostly Patriots and Bruins).

Oh, and can we talk about how insane the Champions League is. We have had some of the greatest games of football over the past 5 or so years. Liverpool vs Barcelona, Barcelona vs Roma, Barcelona vs PSG, Tottenham vs Man City, and basically every Real Madrid matchup this year (I know I'm forgetting a bunch, but these are just the comebacks and madness that first came to mind). They can't keep getting away with it. RM has actually been the worst team in every matchup against PSG, Cheslea, and now Man City, but yet they find a way to win with a couple of magical moments. This is why football/socceer is the best sport in the world, and the Champions League semifinals might be the most entertaining round of any sport. I actually think the semis are more exciting than the finals most of the time. Just the drama we've seen this year and the past few years is insane. It truly never disappoints.

## Conclusion

I know this post and writing was terrible, but it's just putting my initial thoughts on the subject on paper. I've decided to post my notes and drafts along with my *final* posts on the website. At this point, I'm just prioritizing the quantity of content over quality. I don't know if this is a good decision or not. I guess we'll find out.