One thing I've noticed over the past years, strictly from my own personal experiences, is how significant of an impact your mindset has on you. All things equal, if you just have a positive mindset over a negative one, you will 100% be happier (and less stressed).

Another related thought is that a sick person's one wish is to not be sick. But once we're healthy again, we have more problems. For every problem we solve, a new one appears that occupies us and stresses us out. I think something that's helped me out when feeling stressed is to think about the worst case scenario. Most times, the worst outcome isn't even all that bad, and my life will still be fine. I'll be able to move on with my life. That's helped relieve a lot of stress. But at the same time, stress is good. I think it's a sign that you truly care about something and that it's important to you. You also don't want to settle. Even if you'll be fine worse case scenario, you still want to accomplish your goals and do things that you want in life. Learning new skills, creating new relationships, improving as a person are all challenges in our lives, and the growth we have in these areas makes us happy, fulfilled, satisfied, etc.

In so many things in life, I tend to come to a similar conclusion: it's about finding the right balance. Having a positive mindset is really important for happiness and growth. It's motivation to go out and do shit. But at the same time, life wouldn't be what it is if every moment of our lives was filled with happiness. It's those failures and low moments in life that make us appreciate the highs and the hard work we've put in to get to where we are. I try to take a step back once in a while and appreciate everything that I have and be grateful for the position I'm in. But it's also important to realize that when in a privileged position, you better go take advantage of that, make an impact, and help others. Understand how lucky you are, but don't squander that position.

That being said, you want more highs than lows, more happy days than sad ones, more healthy days than sick ones, and be positive most of the time. Find a balance, then tilt it in the direction you're going towards.
