---
layout: post
title:	Learning Programming
date:	2022-05-05
author:	Noah
description: My journey of learning computer science and how to program. The past, present, and future.
ogimage: hello-world.jpeg

---

## Part 1

I’ve always been interested in technology, for as long as I can remember. It started for me when I was young, in middle school probably. I would be watching YouTube videos on the newest products, what the best tech was, etc.

Then in high school, I finally got the chance to take computer science, starting in my junior year. I took AP Computer Science. We learned Java in that class, and by the end of the year I had recreated one of my favorite games, 2048. It was a really cool and fun experience for me. I remember being in my dorm late at night (I went to a boarding school) with another friend in the class. We were just staying up, working on our projects. I was so stuck on the algorithm to use to make the merging of numbers work in the game. I was writing out all these formulas and algorithms in my notebook to figure it out, and talking to my friend about it. But once I finally cracked the code, it felt so good. When I compiled and ran my program, and saw that I had made a fully functioning version of 2048 that me and my friends could play, that was one of the coolest feelings in the world. It was fun, challenging, and rewarding. My senior year, I created an iOS app in Swift with a partner. This was also a great experience that was fun, challenging, and rewarding. We now had the ability to create something and put it on the App Store for anyone to go download and use.

I genuinely loved my first experiences with programming and computer science in high school. It came naturally and was pretty easy at first to me. But there were still challenges at the same time. I enjoyed the problem solving aspect. It was both an art and a science. A way to express yourself. Everyone can come up with unique solutions to different problems.

## Part 2

Now I’m in college. I’m a junior, studying economics. Considering how great my experience with CS was in high school, why am I not studying it now? Well, to start off, I was definitely considering it. I took the three intro CS classes at UChicago from the spring of my first year to the winter of my second year. We first learned Type Racket, which I don’t think anyone uses, but who knows. Then we learned C. Those first two classes were great. Pretty similar experience to what I had before. Then in our third class, we learned Assembly, while still doing some C. And wow, that class killed me. I don’t know if it’s because it was remote, hard to stay focused and engage, or because it was the professor’s first time teaching the class, or I just suck at CS, but I struggled with many aspects of systems, architecture, and learning Assembly in this class. It genuinely made me hate CS and I haven’t took another class since. There was definitely a lot of stuff I understood, but also a lot of stuff I didn’t. Assembly seemed old and archaic to me. I’m not sure if it’s useful or not in the real world. There’s probably some use, and even more value to understanding it. I don’t know, but a lot of the other classes in the program seemed similar, and most didn’t interest me anymore. That’s basically why I’m not studying computer science. UChicago isn’t necessarily known for CS, and they definitely are for econ, so that’s another reason. Econ also genuinely interested me.

## Part 3

That being said, I finally got back into programming more than a year later. I’ve learned a bit of HTML and CSS for my website. I’m learning Python through [Automate the Boring Stuff](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/). I’m starting Harvard’s CS50, just to get a refresher on the fundamentals and hopefully learn some new things too. I also plan to learn SQL for data stuff, specifically with [Dune](https://dune.com). I also want to learn JavaScript and TypeScript, and then some Solidity. I don’t know yet if I want to be a software engineer as my job, but who knows. We’ll find out through this journey.

There are so many good resources online to learn anything, and that definitely includes computer science and programming (this relates to another topic of learning/college/school/education, but that’s another post on its own). I’m using this [video](https://youtu.be/k9WqpQp8VSU) as a resource to start for now, which is partly why I’m starting CS50 now. There’s so many guides and videos people have on how to start learning this stuff. I have a bunch of links to many, but I’m not gonna share them because I don’t know what’s best. I’m keeping it simple, and all I’m doing is what I said above. I’m not even looking at the other guides I’ve found. A lot of them say similar things, but part of problem solving is to go Google and figure out how to learn this stuff. I think it’s similar to working out, which is another thing I need to get back into and will probably write about soon, but there’s so many programs to follow and ways to learn, but the most important thing is to just start doing it and to have consistency. Don’t spend too much time picking a workout routine or a first programming language to learn. It really doesn’t matter that much. Just pick an online class, pick a language, and work on it everyday. This is still something I’m working on. I’ve finally found some books/classes that I’ll stick with and just get through, but I still need to get more consistent. That being said, I’m still a beginner, so I don’t know shit. Some of this advice may be good, some may be bad. Either way, I’ve found the fun in computer science and programming again, and I’m looking forward to this journey.